# Maintainer Terms & Guidelines

Kiwi is an open source activity- & participation platform, intended for use by
groups in all shapes and sizes. As such, it's continously developed by these 
different groups of people. As any open source project alike, open source is
about collaboration. However, different users may have different needs and
different priorities. To bring these differing views together, the following
terms and guidelines were devised to bring everyone together on equal grounds.

This project is intended for use by organised groups of people: associations
organisations, sports clubs or anything alike. Regardless of group size, each
of these entities has a unique perspective that should be weighed equally to
any other. Therefore, such a group of people, hereinafter referred to as an
organisation, may apply for **partner status**. As a partner, your organisation
will be able to weigh in on the direction and priorities of the project. In 
return, and in the spirit of free, open source software, we ask that your
organisation actively participates in the development and maintenance of the
project. (Note: individuals that are not affiliated to any organisation are
welcome to apply as a maintainer.)

## Terms of partner status
Each partner organisation shall provide one or more maintainers. These
maintainers will participate in the development of the project on behalf of
their organisation. They're always the point of contact, except for notices
on the partner status of the organisation or for notices on changes in the list
the maintainers representing an organisation. All communication among
maintainers takes place through an online channel, indicated after being granted
partner status.

At least once every six months, a vote is held on the priorities and agreements
for the period until the next vote. A partner will be assigned the task to
organise a vote. An individual maintainer will be assigned to be the point of
contact regarding the organisation of the vote. The vote will be announced by
the organising partner at least a week in advance, through the online
communication channel for maintainers, distinctly from any other communication.
Any maintainer may introduce topics, for a period of at least 4 days after the
vote has been announced. Minutes are taken during votes and are published within
14 days after the vote.

Each entity with partner status can cast a single vote per topic. The maintainer
that will cast the vote on behalf of a partner is registered at the start of
each vote. For any changes to these terms, as well as the the code of conduct, a
vote must be held.

Maintainers are expected to be active, supportive and responsive. Upon questions
or requests from fellow maintainers, a response or indication of acknowledgement
of the request must be given within 72 hours. A request to review a pull request
must be fullfilled within 7 days, unless a longer deadline is agreed upon. Upon
failure to do so, the project owner can make any and all decisions to resolve 
any issues arising by this failure, except for any decisions which are in direct
contradiction to these terms or the code of conduct.

If a maintainer is unavailable for a longer period of time, a notice to must be
provided accordingly. Maintainers are expected to adhere to all deadlines and
agreements. Votes shall be regularly attended by maintainers.

Upon failure to adhere to these terms, partner status may be revoked, or a
single maintainer may be expelled. The project owner is responsible for granting,
refusing or revoking maintainer status. Additional details may be requested by
the project owner before a decision is made. A reason shall always be provided.
Upon applying, the applicant provides the name and contact details of their
maintainers. The names of partner organisations, as well as their representative
maintainers are published. To apply for maintainer status, please send an e-mail
to jasperweyne+kiwi \[at\] gmail \[dot\] com.

## Guidelines for maintainers
These guidelines are intended for _maintainers_ of the project. They build upon
the contribution guidelines and code of conduct.

For Kiwi, we use a rolling release cycle. All development is done on the develop
branch. The master branch represents the latest release. It's merged from
develop when develop is deemed stable by the majority of maintainers. New
features are planned through the projects tab. Only features included in the
project board for the next release will be merged to develop. If a pull request
with a new feature is submitted that's not included in the project board, a
notice shall be given to the author that it may or may not be merged in a later
release. A release is automatically generated by the Github Actions workflow,
**don't create a new release manually**.

It's recommended that discourse on development related topics is held directly
within GitHub as much as possible. This allows a public commentary on changes,
providing transparency for all users. The communication channel should mainly be
used for development related questions. If it becomes clear that a disagreement
of opinion exists, make sure a public note is placed on the respective issue or
PR on Github.

All maintainers are responsible for carrying out reviews of both issues and PR's.
When providing feedback be civil, courteous, and kind. Disagreement is fine, so
long as the discourse is carried out politely. It is highly recommended that
reviews are performed by maintainers that have not been involved with the issue
earlier.

During your review, consider the following points:

* Does the change have impact? While fixing typos is nice as it adds to the
  overall quality of the project, merging a single typo fix at a time clutters
  the git history and makes tracing back the origin of a change more difficult.
  Other examples to be wary of:
    * Changes in variable names. Ask whether or not the change will make
      understanding the code easier, or if it could simply a personal preference
      on the part of the author.
    * Formatting changes. Formatting changes should usually be generated only by
      the coding standards checker/fixer. Ask whether the change is generally
      improving readability/maintenance, or if it could simply be a personal
      preference on the part of the author.
  Essentially: feel free to close issues or PR's that do not have impact.
* Do the changes make sense? If you do not understand what the changes are or
  what they accomplish, ask the author for clarification. Ask the author to add
  comments and/or clarify test case names to make the intentions clear. If these
  clarification reveal that the author may be unaware of features that already
  accommodate their needs, show an example on how to address the issue with the
  current features and feel free to close the issue once they confirm.
* Does the change break backwards compatibility (BC)? In general, no data should
  be lost. If so, work with the contributor to determine why the BC break is
  needed, and whether or not there may be a way to make the change without
  breaking BC. Any BC breaks you plan on merging MUST be discussed with the
  maintainer team prior to merging.
* Is this a new feature? If so:
    * If no issue is linked, does the PR indicate the need for the feature? If
      not, ask them to provide that information, preferably in an issue.
    * Are the new tests actually meaningful? Do they actually test the changed
      behaviour? Do the tests resemble the expectations of users? If not, **do**
      **not merge** the feature until they are!
    * Is the feature necessary for general use cases? Kiwi isn't, nor should it
      be, a monolithic piece of software. In general, settings to change the
      behaviour of Kiwi are to be avoided! If a proposed feature does not is not
      applicable to all users of the project, recommend to the author that they
      maintain the feature on their own, and close the request. You may also
      recommend that they see if the feature gains traction amongst other users,
      and suggest they re-submit when they can show such support.
